just lately I've been talking to a
journalist who's researching direct a
chivalry's writing an article about it
and I said to him look man the story
here is the money
period the story is where does the money
come from where does the money go and
who controls it
and well they manage to ride this
hypocrite thing all the way out because
the most recent financial reports we've
got over 800 thousand US dollars who is
giving that money and what do they think
it's going to but above all else let's
remember this direct action everywhere
promised that they would be different
from all the other organizations that
came before they'd be different from
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals they'd be different from Humane
Society they would be different because
they were going to be the one and only
organization that was devoted to social
science research and what do they do now
they do the lowest kind of headline
chasing press release baiting
attention-getting stunts publicity
stunts they take a teenage girl in a
bikini and have her lie down
on top of the frozen meat in a grocery
store and they put fake blood on her and
they stand around and chant wearing
masks and holding signs do you think
they did social science research to back
up that method do you think they did
social science research into the
effectiveness of any of the methods of
these these stunts these demonstrations
they do with these protests I mean
really people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know you
there was an old-fashioned saying that
the media should hold up the mirror to
society you know the newspapers hold up
a mirror and you behold your reflection
in it and you know what we do here on
YouTube in some ways it's a sort of
distorted funhouse mirror but in some
ways social media now serves that
purpose YouTube provides us with a very
interesting
metric a measurement of activity a
measurement of public interest I'm going
to contrast you right now two very
different numbers eight hundred thousand
and two hundred and seventy eight
hundred thousand US dollars two hundred
and seventy views on YouTube doesn't it
seem a little bit fishy to you doesn't
it seem a little bit strange that a
group that manages to consistently
propel itself into newspaper headlines a
group with an astronomical annual budget
eight hundred thousand dollars in
donations coming in in just one year
this is reported formally in basically
tax information to the American
government by the way this isn't just
some rumor on the internet they got a
10,000 isn't it astounding that they
have fewer views on a video talking
about vegan activism than I do I have a
lot of experience uploading videos
talking about different issues veganism
but I mean I blow away direct action
everywhere numbers and talking about
some really obscure topics and I managed
to get several thousand views talking
about Breana jackfruits in' ceasing to
be vegan I mean I've made videos from
you know straight up book reviews
political science discussions field so I
have experience with the whole range and
direct action everywhere they're really
putting some money and effort into these
film productions I can't tell you that
the quality their filmmaking has gotten
worse and worse I think over the years
it's gotten better and better but the
audience has dwindled and that that's a
little bit strange that's a little bit
fishy to me alright it raises questions
about what was supposed to be their
their founding mandate which was to
study social science research find out
what was effective activism and what was
not evidently what they're doing in a
very real sense is not effective they're
putting out a message that people do not
want to hear so one particular
this is a 44 minute video DXE responds
to vices documentary about DXE so you
don't know vice vice at this point can
be called a mainstream media outlet
they're not quite as mainstream as CBS
or NBC they started as a magazine they
have a YouTube channel they're carried
on HBO on broadcast television vice is a
mass-market big audience Ellen they made
a documentary on - right - and ever on
DXE and here's a video they're making on
their own channel that's linked directly
to that mass media coverage and one
month later there are only 573 views on
that video now I just say again I'm very
experienced with YouTube when you have a
video that is 44 minutes long if one
person watches it seriously they watch
the whole thing they're gonna count as
three or four views because they watch
it and then they stop and go to the
bathroom and come back the next day and
reopen it again it's not really
measuring views it's measuring viewings
so the same person ends up clicking on
the video repeatedly when when you have
a video that long these are really small
numbers these are worryingly small
numbers for an organization that again
gets into the front pages of newspapers
from time to time it has a huge budget
and they claim they claim they have
thousands and thousands of volunteers
all around the world now today it's very
very hard to get a number from them
they'd always dodge the question of that
if you ask them how many volunteers you
have they'll say like well everyone who
gives a thumbs up to our Facebook group
is a volunteer everyone who supports us
in spirit is in both here come on how
many people are you actually organizing
in these protests I don't know probably
they don't know but this is ostensibly
tens of thousands of people organized
organized under the leadership of Wayne
song with direct action everywhere and
none of them seem to be interested in
hearing what Wayne's Young has to say
listening to their own leaders message
that's worrying
that's a warning sign again this is just
YouTube being a mirror you can hold up
to this phenomenon it leads us to
scrutinize in question what's really
going on here so and again let's be
clear I have neither a false humility
about this Norman Anza kind of ego trip
if I upload a video talking about
Aristotle and it has 1500 views
believe me I'm at hey Wow I managed to
get a thousand five hundred people to
listen to me tell you my opinion about
the philosophy of Aristotle Socrates if
I upload a video about Socrates and
Plato and has 500 use fabulous I'm doing
absolutely nothing to cater to a
mainstream audience I'm not offering any
special effects drama oh these are kind
of philosophical videos for a small
number of people or sincerely interested
in them all right here is a video the
right to action everywhere uploaded
eight months ago titled 58 activists
arrested rescuing chickens and it's two
hours long so again when you have video
that long if anyone's watching it
seriously they'll count as many of you
when you have 58 activists involved in
that event each one of those activists
has friends and family who would be
addressed in the video right oh you know
my sister got arrested going to this
thing oh I want to see what happened all
right
just whatever friends from high school
connections in your own social media
casual acquaintances who are connected
to those 58 people and more than 50
people were there I think they will all
click on the video and show some
interest doesn't it seem peculiar to you
that only 1300 people clicked on this
video for this event and again it's an
event that I mean these are ambulance
chasers I know if you guys know that old
sites are they court controversy they
pursue controversy they try to force
their way into headlines to get
shameless self-promotion but with all
that shameless self-promotion having
been noted nobody cares nobody wants to
watch this nobody wants to watch this
even compared to me talking about
Socrates or Aristotle even compared to
me some of my videos complaining about
irony's and kind of interesting little
controversies within vegan activism as a
movement right so why is that that
raises questions and again we can just
ask hypothetically whether you regard
you know what I do here on YouTube as a
success or a failure it's kind of
irrelevant to this question how many
viewers do you think would be looking at
my content if I had a budget of $800,000
and if I had if I had organized under my
leadership with these people leave in a
compound they literally have a series of
houses where they live like a cult or at
best like a kind of hippie commune live
together I mean if I had just 1,000
people organized my leadership wouldn't
it make sense for these videos to have
more than 1,000 views wouldn't if more
than 1,000 people regard me as their
leader wouldn't at least 1,000 people be
clicking on the lectures giving no all
right so it's it's a really interesting
really quizzical situation so here on
screen you see a selection of their most
recent videos again I'm not gonna insult
them I don't think this is complete
garbage all right more than half of
these videos I think are complete
garbage some of these are okay some of
them are informative some of them they
put a lot of work into if anything over
the years they've really been making an
effort to improve their craft as
filmmakers and doing outreach
communication but they have failed and
this failure is itself very interesting
because there were numerous youtubers
doing the same kind of infotainment for
veganism without getting themselves
thrown in prison without doing
disruption without doing illegal forms
of activism who became massively
successful reached huge audiences with
absolutely zero budget without having
$800,000 behind them so there are some
important questions to be asked now this
is the 33rd video I've made on this
channel about direct action everywhere
just lately I've been talking to a
journalist who's researching direct -
Neville Rees writing an article about it
and I said to him look man the story
here
is the money period the story is where
does the money come from where does the
money go and who controls it period that
is the story about DXE there is no other
story here that's worth talking what is
the XE if this journalist were to ask me
what is d XE why does it matter
my answer is d XE today is the diametric
opposite of everything it promised to be
when it was founded just a few years ago
d XE today is a parody of the virtues it
formerly
preached does this ring any bells for
you guys do you remember this quote DX e
is a completely horizontal network of
activists not even an organization what
I would I'd talk to their members ask
the questions say oh well how are you
guys organized it's oh no no we're not
an organization it's completely
horizontal there are no leaders there
are no followers fully horizontal
network of equal activists in chapters
no leaders do you remember that do you
remember direct action everywhere
boasting that they do no fundraising
that they don't want money they even
said that in the debate with Gary France
aione some of you guys were really into
vegan activism we'll remember that
there's there's a cultural reference for
you um Gary France I own a debating with
them and Wayne's Young said no we don't
want any donations we do no no
fundraising and Gary said back to him
come on Wayne we all know you're lying
I've been to your website and there's a
big button you can click on that says
donate now click here so even back then
this contradiction was there and well
they managed to ride this hypocrite
thing all the way out because the most
recent financial reports we've got over
800 thousand US dollars who is giving
that money and what do they think it's
going to you know and with the official
excuse explanation from Wayne is that
this is going to actually house and feed
the animals that they've rescued takes a
really brief google search to shed some
doubt on that claim there's been a long
storied history of the people who run
the animal shelters complaining about
the XE you rescue these animals you just
dump them here you don't pay for them
you don't take care of them there are
huge financial burdens involved mm I
have inside information I've spoken to
one of those people who runs one of
those one of those sanctuaries this has
been a huge issue now that they've got
$800,000 to burn I don't know what
percentage the money is actually going
to house and care for cows but and for
the donors is that what you think you're
is that what you think you're Jennifer
look um
there was a time I I know you guys who
watch my channel will remember this
promise there was a time when they
promised no one has ever been arrested
at one of their days of action do you
guys remember that promise that they
weren't about anyone getting arrived
played that clip over and over again on
this channel right if you just add up
the different promises the things that
defined them it becomes clear the core
definition of what this organization was
is it is supposed to be it's been turned
inside-out it's been turned upside down
on its head but above all else let's
remember this direct action everywhere
promised that they would be different
from all the other organizations that
came before they'd be different from
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals they'd be different from Humane
Society they would be different because
they were going to be the one and only
organization that was devoted to social
science research it's been a long term
since I heard those words from from
Wayne see all right
social science research that the actions
they engaged in the strategic choices
they made would be 100% based on
learning the lessons of social science
research and what do they do now they do
the lowest kind of headline chasing
press release baiting attention-getting
stunts publicity stunts they take a
teenage girl in a bikini
have her lie down on top of the frozen
meat in a grocery store and they put
fake blood on her and they stand around
and chant wearing masks and holding
signs do you think they did social
science research to back up that method
do you think they did social science
research into the effectiveness of any
of the methods of these these stunts
these demonstrations they do with these
protests do you think they're doing
social science research right now into
why it is that they have thousands or
tens of thousands of members and a
budget of over eight hundred thousand US
dollars but they can't get the number of
viewers I get with zero followers zero
members organization zero budget when
they put up a lecture talking about
veganism talking about vegan politics in
this kind of thing all right that is
mind blowing and here's the final irony
from my perspective I got into this game
with veganism with none of the none of
the pretensions and none of the
megalomania of wayne's young and direct
as uniform none but you know what
ironically we right now you and me
viewer the viewers of about sale we're
living up to the original dream of
direct actually there were much more
than they are you and I right now are in
a fully horizontal decentralized network
of activists there were no leaders and
no followers here none of you are
donating money towards me okay $1 a
month on patreon if you if you want
what's the total budget there now like
$200 is only a few people donate money
for the channel okay we're living up to
that you're and I'm eight I know you're
I'm sincerely interested in social
science research I'm sincerely
interested in the difference between
what is effective activism and what is
not instead of selling you a dogmatic
dream that if you will just obey if you
will obey obey obey if you will follow
orders and get yourself put in prison
that that will bring about the vegan
utopia in the future all right
young and direct action everywhere you
have become a parody you've become the
the sick inversion of everything you
once preached and everything you once
aspired to where are these people gonna
be ten years from now everybody grows up
I see that that red haired young woman
who is still a university girl she was a
teenager when she got started with with
the right action everywhere she's moved
up in the ranks I see her now sitting
next to Wayne so young as if she's kind
of number two and now maybe she's
replaced Fria you know and she she makes
better youtube videos than most of them
well I I see people who started this
just distinguished this is another girl
who started when she was 14 or 15
started screaming as strangers in
grocery stores I've had clips of these
things on my my channel of the past okay
everybody grows up sometimes and you
know what ironically most of the people
who are a part of direct action ever 1.0
they've all moved on and quit they've
all gotten stretches gogol their names
the people who were actually in the
founding documents who are in the
original generation kind of everyone
except Wayne Wayne and his girlfriend
pre have stuck around
you know they've all grown up and moved
on and you can write to those people on
Facebook I have I've talked to some of
those people you know the the generation
of of original founders sooner or later
people wake up grow up and move on and
you know where Wayne's going to be Wayne
is going to be sitting on top of 800
thousand US dollars
[Music]